TECHNICAL_DOCUMENTATION.md, before:

# PPC Suite V4 - Technical Documentation

## 1. Architecture Overview

### System Design
PPC Suite V4 is a consolidated "Decision Hub" built on Streamlit, designed to process Amazon Search Term reports and generate actionable optimizations across Bids, harvests, and negatives.

```mermaid
graph TD
    User((User)) --> Entry[ppcsuite_v4.py]
    Entry --> Hub[core/DataHub]
    Entry --> Opt[features/OptimizerModule]
    
    subgraph "Core Services"
        Hub --> DB[(PostgreSQL/Local DB)]
        Hub --> Loader[core/DataLoader]
    end
    
    subgraph "Decision Engine"
        Opt --> Bench[calculate_account_benchmarks]
        Opt --> Harvest[identify_harvest_candidates]
        Opt --> Neg[identify_negative_candidates]
        Opt --> Bids[calculate_bid_optimizations]
        Opt --> Heat[create_heatmap]
        Opt --> Sim[run_simulation]
    end
    
    subgraph "UI Layer"
        Heat --> Audit[Audit Tab Heatmap]
        Sim --> Dash[Overview Dashboard]
    end
```

---

## 2. Optimizer Engine (`features/optimizer.py`)

The Optimizer is the primary logic engine, handling large-scale data processing in six distinct stages.

### Stage 1: Robust Benchmarking
**Function**: `calculate_account_benchmarks(df, config)`

This stage establishes the statistical floors for the entire account.
- **Dynamic CVR Thresholds**: Uses `1 / Account_CVR` to determine expected clicks before negation.
- **Winsorized Median ROAS**:
  1. Filters for "Substantial" rows (Spend ≥ $5).
  2. Clips top 1% of ROAS values at the 99th percentile.
  3. Calculates the median of this Winsorized set.
  * *Reasoning*: Protects against low-spend, high-ROAS outliers skewing bid recommendations.

### Stage 2: Harvest Detection
**Function**: `identify_harvest_candidates(df, config, matcher)`

Identifies search terms that should be elevated to Exact match keywords.
- **Winner Selection**: In case of duplicates, the winner campaign is selected based on ROAS → Sales → Clicks.
- **Standardized Schema**: Always returns a DataFrame with `Harvest_Term`, `Campaign Name`, `Ad Group Name`, and metrics to prevent `KeyError` in downstream modules.

### Stage 3: Negative Identification
**Function**: `identify_negative_candidates(df, config, harvest_df)`

Categorizes "Bleeders" into two severities:
- **🟡 Performance Negative**: High spend, 0 sales, exceeding soft click threshold.
- **🔴 Hard Stop**: Exceeding hard stop threshold (2.5x expected clicks).
- **Isolation Negatives**: Automatically negates any term that was recently harvested into an Exact campaign.

### Stage 4: Bid Optimization (V-Next Bucketed Logic)
**Function**: `calculate_bid_optimizations(df, config, ...)`

Uses a proportional adjustment model:
- **Alpha Factor**: Moderates change speed (default 0.15).
- **Buckets**:
    - **Direct**: Targets with specific Keywords or ASINs.
    - **Aggregated**: Broad/Phrase groupings by parent Target.
    - **Auto**: Categorized separately to ensure specific Auto-targeting types (close-match, etc.) are optimized correctly.

### Stage 5: Audit Heatmap
**Function**: `create_heatmap(df, results)`

Generates a per-AdGroup audit trail. 
- **Action Tracking**: Maps "Actions_Taken" (Harvest, Negate, Bid Change) directly to the campaign structure.
- **Defensive Design**: Explicitly checks for column existence (`Campaign Name`, `Ad Group Name`) to ensure stability even with sparse datasets.

---

## 3. Data Hub & Persistence (`core/data_hub.py`)

**Purpose**: Manages session-persistent data and database interactions.

- **Freshness Control**: Uses `df.copy()` across all entry points to ensure that date filtering in the UI does not pollute the raw data state.
- **Database Integration**: Fetches historical data ranges when the "Include DB Data" toggle is enabled in `ppcsuite_v4.py`.
- **Smart Mapping**: Bridges Search Term reports to Advertised Product reports to provide SKU-level context.

---

## 4. UI Design System (`ui/components.py`)

The UI follows a "Premium Glassmorphism" aesthetic.

### The Decision Hub & Report Card
Organized into three consistent rows of 5 metric cards:
1. **📉 Financial Performance**: Spend, Sales, ROAS, ACoS, CVR. (Pinned to Header)
2. **🎯 Optimization Summary**: Ad Groups, Search Terms, Negatives, Bids, Harvests.
3. **🩺 Account Health (Report Card)**: 
   - Uses a **3-column layout** for high-impact gauges: ROAS vs Target, Spend Efficiency, and Spend Risk.
   - Denominators are split for transparency: **Evaluated** (Total unique targets flagged for bids) vs **Analyzed** (Total rows in the Search Term Report).

---

## 5. AI Assistant (`features/assistant.py`)

**Logic**: Knowledge Graph Augmentation.
- The assistant does not read raw CSVs. It reads a structured **Knowledge Graph** containing pre-computed anomalies, harvest-negative paradoxes, and efficiency deltas.
- **Strategic Layer**: Analyzes why the "Health Score" is low and provides specific remedies.

---

## 6. Stability & Error Handling

### Date Clamping & Window Alignment
To prevent `StreamlitAPIException` and ensure mathematical integrity:
- **Smart Clamping**: Automatically snaps UI date sliders to the valid bounds of the uploaded dataset.
- **Window Alignment**: Impact analysis automatically clips the "Before" and "After" comparison windows to equal lengths based on the latest available data date, preventing time-bias in growth metrics.

---

## 7. Impact Analysis Logic (`features/impact_dashboard.py`)

The Impact Dashboard uses a **Prorated Historical Model** to avoid the common "Inflation Trap" of multi-attribution.

### The Problem: Multi-Attribution Inflation
If a target is paused, an optimizer might claim 100% of its historical sales as a "Saving". If 10 targets are paused in the same ad group, the optimizer might claim 10x the actual ad group spend.

### The Solution: Account-Level Proration
1. **Ground Truth**: Calculate the absolute AED change at the Account level (Total Sales After - Total Sales Before).
2. **Weighted Attribution**: Distribute this AED delta to individual actions based on their **Spend Weight** during the "Before" period.
3. **Hybrid Verification**:
   - **Financials**: Use prorated `AED` values for all totals and waterfall charts.
   - **Winner/Loser Status**: Evaluate based on **Individual Target Performance**. If a specific target's sales dropped more than the account average, it is marked as a "Loser" regardless of overall account growth.

Commit message:

V4.1: The Narrative Impact Update - Redesigned Impact Dashboard with Waterfall flow, rule-based additive metrics, SVG icons, and synchronized Home page metrics. Updated technical documentation, readme, and methodology guides.

TECHNICAL_DOCUMENTATION.md, after:

# PPC Suite V4 - Technical Documentation

## 1. Architecture Overview

### System Design
PPC Suite V4 is a consolidated "Decision Hub" built on Streamlit, designed to process Amazon Search Term reports and generate actionable optimizations across Bids, harvests, and negatives.

```mermaid
graph TD
    User((User)) --> Entry[ppcsuite_v4.py]
    Entry --> Hub[core/DataHub]
    Entry --> Opt[features/OptimizerModule]
    
    subgraph "Core Services"
        Hub --> DB[(PostgreSQL/Local DB)]
        Hub --> Loader[core/DataLoader]
    end
    
    subgraph "Decision Engine"
        Opt --> Bench[calculate_account_benchmarks]
        Opt --> Harvest[identify_harvest_candidates]
        Opt --> Neg[identify_negative_candidates]
        Opt --> Bids[calculate_bid_optimizations]
        Opt --> Heat[create_heatmap]
        Opt --> Sim[run_simulation]
    end
    
    subgraph "UI Layer"
        Heat --> Audit[Audit Tab Heatmap]
        Sim --> Dash[Overview Dashboard]
    end
```

---

## 2. Optimizer Engine (`features/optimizer.py`)

The Optimizer is the primary logic engine, handling large-scale data processing in six distinct stages.

### Stage 1: Robust Benchmarking
**Function**: `calculate_account_benchmarks(df, config)`

This stage establishes the statistical floors for the entire account.
- **Dynamic CVR Thresholds**: Uses `1 / Account_CVR` to determine expected clicks before negation.
- **Winsorized Median ROAS**:
  1. Filters for "Substantial" rows (Spend ≥ $5).
  2. Clips top 1% of ROAS values at the 99th percentile.
  3. Calculates the median of this Winsorized set.
  * *Reasoning*: Protects against low-spend, high-ROAS outliers skewing bid recommendations.

### Stage 2: Harvest Detection
**Function**: `identify_harvest_candidates(df, config, matcher)`

Identifies search terms that should be elevated to Exact match keywords.
- **Winner Selection**: In case of duplicates, the winner campaign is selected based on ROAS → Sales → Clicks.
- **Standardized Schema**: Always returns a DataFrame with `Harvest_Term`, `Campaign Name`, `Ad Group Name`, and metrics to prevent `KeyError` in downstream modules.

### Stage 3: Negative Identification
**Function**: `identify_negative_candidates(df, config, harvest_df)`

Categorizes "Bleeders" into two severities:
- **🟡 Performance Negative**: High spend, 0 sales, exceeding soft click threshold.
- **🔴 Hard Stop**: Exceeding hard stop threshold (2.5x expected clicks).
- **Isolation Negatives**: Automatically negates any term that was recently harvested into an Exact campaign.

### Stage 4: Bid Optimization (V-Next Bucketed Logic)
**Function**: `calculate_bid_optimizations(df, config, ...)`

Uses a proportional adjustment model:
- **Alpha Factor**: Moderates change speed (default 0.15).
- **Buckets**:
    - **Direct**: Targets with specific Keywords or ASINs.
    - **Aggregated**: Broad/Phrase groupings by parent Target.
    - **Auto**: Categorized separately to ensure specific Auto-targeting types (close-match, etc.) are optimized correctly.

### Stage 5: Audit Heatmap
**Function**: `create_heatmap(df, results)`

Generates a per-AdGroup audit trail. 
- **Action Tracking**: Maps "Actions_Taken" (Harvest, Negate, Bid Change) directly to the campaign structure.
- **Defensive Design**: Explicitly checks for column existence (`Campaign Name`, `Ad Group Name`) to ensure stability even with sparse datasets.

---

## 3. Data Hub & Persistence (`core/data_hub.py`)

**Purpose**: Manages session-persistent data and database interactions.

- **Freshness Control**: Uses `df.copy()` across all entry points to ensure that date filtering in the UI does not pollute the raw data state.
- **Database Integration**: Fetches historical data ranges when the "Include DB Data" toggle is enabled in `ppcsuite_v4.py`.
- **Smart Mapping**: Bridges Search Term reports to Advertised Product reports to provide SKU-level context.

---

## 4. UI Design System (`ui/components.py`)

The UI follows a "Premium Glassmorphism" aesthetic.

### The Decision Hub & Report Card
Organized into three consistent rows of 5 metric cards:
1. **📉 Financial Performance**: Spend, Sales, ROAS, ACoS, CVR. (Pinned to Header)
2. **🎯 Optimization Summary**: Ad Groups, Search Terms, Negatives, Bids, Harvests.
3. **🩺 Account Health (Report Card)**: 
   - Uses a **3-column layout** for high-impact gauges: ROAS vs Target, Spend Efficiency, and Spend Risk.
   - Denominators are split for transparency: **Evaluated** (Total unique targets flagged for bids) vs **Analyzed** (Total rows in the Search Term Report).

---

## 5. AI Assistant (`features/assistant.py`)

**Logic**: Knowledge Graph Augmentation.
- The assistant does not read raw CSVs. It reads a structured **Knowledge Graph** containing pre-computed anomalies, harvest-negative paradoxes, and efficiency deltas.
- **Strategic Layer**: Analyzes why the "Health Score" is low and provides specific remedies.

---

## 6. Stability & Error Handling

### Date Clamping & Window Alignment
To prevent `StreamlitAPIException` and ensure mathematical integrity:
- **Smart Clamping**: Automatically snaps UI date sliders to the valid bounds of the uploaded dataset.
- **Window Alignment**: Impact analysis automatically clips the "Before" and "After" comparison windows to equal lengths based on the latest available data date, preventing time-bias in growth metrics.

---

## 7. Impact Analysis Logic (`features/impact_dashboard.py`)

The Impact Dashboard uses a **Rule-Based Additive Model** to provide a verifiable and non-inflationary measure of optimizer performance.

### 1. The Revenue Story (Waterfall Flow)
The dashboard narrates impact as a sequence of discrete financial events:
- **Cost Saved**: Direct `before_spend` from negated bleeders (cost avoidance).
- **Harvest Gains**: Assumed `10% efficiency lift` from transitioning winners to Exact Match.
- **Bid/Pause Shifts**: Observed `(Sales Delta) - (Spend Delta)` from performance changes.
- **Net Result**: The final sum of all unique, deduplicated impacts.

### 2. Verification & Deduplication
To ensure "Ground Truth" accuracy:
- **Unique Action ID**: Every action is identified by a campaign/target/stats hash.
- **Deduplication Engine**: Prevents double-counting the same search term across multiple campaigns.
- **Window Alignment**: "Before" vs "After" periods are dynamically aligned based on the **Actual Data Upload Frequency**, ensuring no time-bias.
- **Storyteller Engine**: A dynamic logic block at the bottom of the dashboard that interprets the waterfall result and identifies the #1 driver for the user.
